Installation
============

.. _installation:

At the moment, the only way to install Vehicle is from source. We aim to make it
available as both an executable and a Python package in the near future.

Building from source
--------------------

On Linux
********

Vehicle is written in Haskell. The first task is to install Haskell itself:

1. Install GHCUp following the instructions from https://www.haskell.org/ghcup/.

2. Close and reopen your terminal.

3. Run ``ghcup tui`` and use it to install and set:
  -  GHC 9.0.X (for some version of X)
  -  Cabal 3.X (for some version of X)

4. Run ``cabal update`` to update your list of packages.

Now we can install Vehicle itself.

1. Clone the Vehicle github repository to your local computer and
   navigate to the directory.

2. Run ``cabal install exe:vehicle`` to install the Vehicle executable on your system.

3. Run ``vehicle -h`` to check that Vehicle has been installed.
  (If this doesn't work then check that check that `~/.cabal/bin` has
   been added to your system path.)

**Troubleshooting**

* Check if you're using the right versions of GHC and Cabal.

* Check if you have any other installations of GHC and Cabal not managed by GHCUp.
  Either remove those installations or make sure that GHCUp is earlier in the PATH environment variable.

On Windows
**********

The easiest way is:

* Install the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) from the Microsoft Store.

* Follow the instructions for Linux above in a WSL terminal.

.. warning::

    Although Vehicle itself supports and is tested on Windows, that does
    not mean that all backends will work on Windows. For example ``Marabou``
    does not currently support Windows.

**Troubleshooting**

* If you have problems with the WSL check if you're using the latest version.

* If you get the error: Missing (or bad) C libraries: icuuc, icuin, icudt
Go to https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg#quick-start-windows and follow the instructions.

Setting Vehicle to work with Agda
---------------------------------

If you want to enable Vehicle to work with Agda, run:

1. Run ``cabal run vehicle-build-system init-agda``

This command will add the ``Vehicle`` Agda library to the Agda ``libraries`` file
and add the ``vehicle`` executable to the Agda ``executables`` file.

The command does not install the `vehicle` library in your Agda ``defaults`` file.
Before using an Agda file generated by Vehicle you will need to add ``vehicle`` to
either your library's ``.agda-lib`` file or to your Agda ``defaults`` file.

See the Agda documentation on
`Library Management <https://agda.readthedocs.io/en/v2.6.0.1/tools/package-system.html>`_
for more details.

Syntax highlighting
-------------------

The syntax highlighting can be installed in VSCode by going to the
"Extensions" tab and searching for "Vehicle Syntax Highlighting".

Contributions adding syntax highlighting to other IDEs would be welcome.
The source code for the VSCode extension is available
`here <https://github.com/vehicle-lang/vscode-vehicle-syntax-highlighting>`_.
